并列句	Busily, but not quickly, for there were tedious stretches of waiting, of hiding in damp crabbed closets, of watching a dismal rain-soaked autumn landscape roll past the window, of hiding again, of sleeping near the gas fumes of the engine and waking with a sick headache, and worst of all, of never once being allowed out into the air to run along the bank or clamber over the deck or haul at the lock gates or catch a mooring rope thrown from the lockside.
疑问句	What are the intentions of the Tartars with regard to Kamchatka?
陈述句	I was determined to investigate that as well as find out what I could about Grumman.
条件状语从句	That's what I'd do, if I was John Faa.
陈述句	There was one family of gyptians in particular, who regularly returned to their mooring in that part of the city known as Jericho, with whom Lyra'd been feuding ever since she could first throw a stone.
并列句	But what the Master was a doing letting you go is a mystery I can't explain.
并列句	Farder Coram leaned forward and gently pulled back the counterpane, and there protruding from Jacob's shoulder was the feathered end of an arrow in a mass of clotted blood.
并列句	No, no, that's the saddest thing: she will be the betrayer, and the experience will be terrible.
陈述句	Then come all this anxiety about Dust.
疑问句	Who, then?
并列句	It was drizzling, but even if there'd been no clouds the city sky was too tainted with light to show the stars.
陈述句	You must decide for yourselves.
并列句	And every hour they drew closer to Bolvangar.
并列句	So they took to keeping her below decks when they passed a lockkeeper's cottage or a canal basin, or anywhere there were likely to be idlers hanging about.
陈述句	He seemed to become focused at once, in the same way that you could focus the beam of an anbaric lantern.
并列句	She shared his pleasure, but for her it wasn't simple pleasure, for there was pain and fear in it too.
陈述句	Then she had it.
条件状语从句	Speak if you will.
陈述句	The Master was silent for a while before saying, Yes, perhaps I should have done.
并列句	But I wonder about your choice of companions.
陈述句	She knew at once what he meant.
并列句	Lyra stood shivering in the fo'c'sle and laughed with delight as her beloved Pantalaimon, sleek and powerful, leaped from the water with half a dozen other swift gray shapes.
陈述句	He's called Tony, she mumbled through frozen lips.
并列句	My eyes are not very clear, and the ice is dirty, but it seems to me that there is a hole in the top of the skull.
疑问句	What's that hourglass mean, Farder Coram?
陈述句	the bear said to Lee Scoresby as he worked.
疑问句	Cousins, could you find some sort of soft drink?
并列句	She clambered on his back again, and he set off down the broken slope, walking steadily and not pacing any more.
陈述句	Yes, she said.
陈述句	Yes, Uncle.
并列句	She said goodbye to the youths by the gate and walked quietly back into Turl Street, and then ran full pelt for Jordan lodge, tumbling in through the door a second before the now cheetah-shaped daemon.
并列句	Stand up and answer, man.
并列句	The king of Svalbard was vain, and he could be flattered.
并列句	To be sure, Mrs. Coulter didn't teach Lyra the latter arts directly, but she knew Lyra was watching when she made herself up, and she took care to let Lyra see where she kept the cosmetics, and to allow her time on her own to explore and try them out for herself.
并列句	She told the story of each one, and Lyra felt her heart stir with admiration for these great, brave, distant heroes.
并列句	Three gyptian men went down at once, and died so silently that no one heard a thing.
陈述句	Goodnight, Lord Faa.
陈述句	said Lyra.
陈述句	Exactly what I knew you'd say.
并列句	They sat for a while longer, and then parted, for it was late, and they were old and anxious.
陈述句	Lyra found herself opposite Farder Coram.
陈述句	Mrs. Lonsdale smacked her leg.
陈述句	Finally they bought a waterproof cape that enveloped her completely, made of semitransparent seal intestine.
疑问句	What's Mrs. Coulter doing now?
陈述句	There's enough trouble awake without stirring more.
陈述句	Something like that, she said.
并列句	I'd like to talk to you for a minute or two.
陈述句	Then you don't know lofur Raknison, said the Palmerian Professor, who had made several expeditions himself to the arctic regions.
陈述句	So will lorek when he finds out.
感叹句	He knows about the alethiometer!
陈述句	Then Mrs. Coulter must have decided you were ready to help her in that work.
并列句	And now that same Lord Asriel is held in the farthest coldest darkest regions of the wild, captive, in the fortress of Svalbard.
并列句	She kept close to Ma Costa, and Pantalaimon became as big as he could and took his panther shape to reassure her.
陈述句	As long as they don't look too close...There.
陈述句	You don't even need to read the symbols, Lyra; you can guess as easy as I can.
并列句	And what else have you been learning about?
陈述句	Yeah.
并列句	He couldn't refuse her that, for she'd seen worse than a dead body, and it might calm her.
陈述句	There's a trick in it like focusing your eyes.
并列句	Farder Coram gave orders for Peter Hawker to go at once to John Faa, and then said: Lyra, as soon as we know whether Jacob's going to live or die, we must have another talk about that alethiometer.
并列句	She would have thought a question like that, which was almost an insult, would enrage the great creature beyond reason, and she wondered at Farder Coram's courage in asking it.
并列句	And where did you say he was being held?
陈述句	I bet it never occurred to you.
陈述句	Lyra Belacqua.
疑问句	Stop a minute....What's your name?
陈述句	That's Billy's cousin, said Charlie.
陈述句	It was her constant response when she was pressed.
并列句	But you know you'll have to work very hard.
并列句	Beside him, his daemon lay sphinxlike on the carpet, swishing her tail occasionally and gazing unblinkingly at Lyra.
疑问句	How do you think you're going to keep still for four hours in this poky wardrobe?
感叹句	What a peculiar name!
陈述句	I expect they were all sorry to say goodbye to you.
并列句	Mrs. Coulter smiled, and her daemon bared his white teeth in a grin of implike pleasure.
陈述句	It'll be dangerous, he said.
并列句	The first volume is set in a universe like ours, but different in many ways.
并列句	Horrible fear filled Lyra's body, and Pantalaimon nestled close against her.
并列句	And I wouldn't ask, except it's like what I did before, Farder Coram, you remember, with that chameleon?
条件状语从句	If you were me, what question would you ask of the Consul of the Witches?
陈述句	Too far.
陈述句	Lyra was frightened.
并列句	Every time the Costas went to Oxford, or half a dozen other families, come to that, they brought back a bit of news.
并列句	And the nearest book of readings I know of is in the Abbey of St. Johann at Heidelberg.
疑问句	Mr. Scoresby, you all a loaded?
并列句	Mrs. Coulter had given her money like sweets, and although she had spent it lavishly, there were still several sovereigns left, which she put in the pocket of the dark wolfskin coat before tiptoeing to the door.
并列句	Here- and he flung the dregs out of the tin mug he'd been drinking from, and tossed it to Lyra.
并列句	There was no one to ask, of course, and Ma Costa laughed, but kindly.
陈述句	Means a sacrifice, an offering, something of that sort.
并列句	She was a little frightened by his skull-like face and his continual trembling.
陈述句	He stretched out in one of the armchairs, so that Lyra could no longer see his face.
陈述句	We don't know.
并列句	John Faa poured little glasses of jenniver from a stone crock for himself and Farder Coram, and wine for Lyra.
陈述句	The goose daemon began to explain.
感叹句	We're busy here!
并列句	Lyra dutifully asked, and reported the answer: There's sixty men with rifles, and they got a couple of larger guns, sort of cannons.
并列句	They couldn't talk except for making sort of gurgling noises, but I knew what they wanted all right.
陈述句	I thought we had more time than that.
陈述句	Yes.
并列句	John Faa waited for silence, and said: Nothing will hold my hand, Margaret, save only judgment.
并列句	The journey back to the main party was colder, and harder, and darker, but it seemed to pass more quickly for all that.
并列句	His visits are rare but always immensely valuable, and I understand he has something of particular interest to show us tonight.
并列句	And strange voices spoke around her.
并列句	You are to take her where she wishes to go and do as she bids.
陈述句	Oh yeah, she mumbled.
陈述句	Goodnight now.
并列句	Pantalaimon hid his eyes, and Lyra hurried blindly after Tony Costa.
陈述句	He tapped his thumbs together over his interlaced fingers, unable to think of anything else to ask this stubborn child.
并列句	It was nearly dark, and they were traveling along the last stretch of inland water before reaching the coast.
并列句	He had to stay close to the ship, of course, for he could never go far from her; but she sensed his desire to speed as far and as fast as he could, for pure exhilaration.
并列句	Lyra wandered away on her own, and went to the reedy bank to sit and throw mud into the water.
陈述句	The dim sun was as high in the sky as it was going to get, only a hand's breadth above the horizon, so it must be nearly noon, she thought.
并列句	He did this now, folding the sides in and in until they stood in a raised rim and then making a lid to fit it.
并列句	Yes, but that's the easy bit, she whispered back.
并列句	The Porter knocked it off the table, but it was my fault.
并列句	Let's just go and look, she said.
并列句	The old man put the box down carefully and began to apologize.
陈述句	That's right, Shuter, said Lord Asriel.
疑问句	Is Lord Asriel's business anything to do with this new initiative of the Consistorial Court of Discipline?
陈述句	We want your help, she said.
感叹句	The aeronaut!
并列句	Forgive my ignorance, said the shaky voice of the old Precentor, but if I ever knew what the Aurora was, I have forgotten.
疑问句	I understand that you are in possession of an alethiome-ter, he said, to her great surprise; for how could he have known that?
陈述句	Master's orders.
感叹句	Oh, she knew it so well!
并列句	Lyra was keen to know more about the witches, but the men had turned their talk to the matter of fuel and stores, and presently she grew impatient to see the rest of the ship.
感叹句	Listen!
陈述句	She was feeling reckless now.
并列句	It might be that a service is finishing, for light comes from the doorway behind her, an organ is playing inside, and the lady is holding a jeweled breviary.
并列句	She drew away and laid the shoulder bag on her dressing table before following Mrs. Coulter back to the drawing room.
陈述句	There was no point in asking what that meant.
并列句	Raymond, are you saying we should fight our way through every kind of danger to a little group of frightened children, and then say to some of them that they can come home, and to the rest that they have to stay?
陈述句	Afric things.
并列句	It was his job to lead all the College services, to preach and pray and hear confessions.
并列句	But finally she heard someone rap on the table.
条件状语从句	If you had not stopped me in Trollesund, I would have crushed that man's head like an egg.
并列句	It took him five whole minutes to die, and he was in torment all the time.
陈述句	Yeah.
并列句	She was a coarse and greedy little savage, for the most part.
陈述句	That's just a beginning.
陈述句	The Steward's bell began to toll, announcing half an hour before dinner.
并列句	His daemon was a beautiful autumn-colored cat, massive in size, who stalked along the table with upraised tail and elegantly inspected Pantalaimon, touching noses briefly before settling on Farder Coram's lap, half-closing her eyes and purring softly.
并列句	Candles flickered here and there in front of images of the saints; a faint and distant clatter came from the organ loft, where some repairs were going on; a servant was polishing the brass lectern.
并列句	She sat up and put her eye to the crack of the door.
并列句	One enemy was perennial: the brickburners' children, who lived by the claybeds and were despised by collegers and townies alike.
疑问句	What d'you think it's for?
陈述句	I wonder you don't remember; you ought to, little as you were.
疑问句	Who's took it?
陈述句	In a kind of way.
并列句	She heard the Steward's heavy wheezing, and through the crack where the door hadn't quite shut she saw him adjust the pipes in the rack by the smoking stand and cast a glance over the decanters and glasses.
并列句	But the quickest way is to use ground gas.
陈述句	Shortly after that, he vanished.
条件状语从句	It was as if he'd said, She had no head.
并列句	Well, the Madonna is Mrs. Coulter, and I think my mother when I put the hand there; and the ant is busy-that's easy, that's the top meaning; and the hourglass has got time in its meanings, and partway down there's now, and I just fix my mind on it.
并列句	With a barely concealed sigh of relief, she turned and left.
原因状语从句	She felt a bolt of cold fear strike at her, because he was so massive and so alien.
陈述句	He's been spying.
并列句	Eyes all around were turning to them, and she could only look up at Ma Costa for reassurance.
陈述句	I seen him.
疑问句	There's a village near, en't there?
并列句	The men held back, fearful; but the bear spoke, to Lyra's weary amazement, chiding them.
陈述句	Gentlemen, he said.
陈述句	It has been your home.
陈述句	Nobly born children.
陈述句	She probly reckons the Gobblers got him.
陈述句	The Gobblers, she said.
并列句	She bit into her sandwich and kept her eyes on the busy street.
疑问句	You en't afraid, are you?
并列句	lorek Byrnison was pacing swiftly, moving both legs on one side of his body at the same time, and rocking from side to side in a steady powerful rhythm.
陈述句	I don't know what we're a going to do with it, to tell you the truth; maybe we could drop it down a fire mine, maybe that would settle it.
并列句	She felt strongly about him at once, but she wasn't sure whether it was liking she felt, or dislike.
疑问句	Who?
陈述句	Mrs. Coulter smiled at her admiration.
陈述句	No, Lyra, he's a lying back there.
原因状语从句	I think it'd be best if I helped you, Farder Coram, she said, because I probably know more about the Gobblers than anyone else, being as I was nearly one of them.
陈述句	I thought that was the man's daemon, said the Enquirer.
并列句	If there is anything troubling you, he said finally, you know you can come and tell me about it.
并列句	However, the aeronaut attended to the condition of the weather as closely as a sailor, and he said there was going to be a fog; and sure enough, as soon as they stopped, a thick mist descended.
并列句	And I asked it, and it said that he was telling the truth, they did trick him, and they're telling lies and not him.
并列句	There was an old and well-established rivalry between him and the Butler.
并列句	He said nothing, but ripped the joint in half with a sound like a splitting log.
并列句	For a large part of the previous century, the most powerful had been the College of Bishops, but in recent years the Consistorial Court of Discipline had taken its place as the most active and the most feared of all the Church's bodies.
陈述句	You should rest.
陈述句	They came to our regions ten years ago with philosophical instruments.
陈述句	You must be the famous Lyra.
感叹句	Oh!
陈述句	They were all ready to move.
并列句	There's probably been so many Scholars all down the centuries that there wouldn't be room to bury the whole of 'em, so they just cut their heads off and keep them.
感叹句	That's the Steward's bell!
陈述句	Lyra turned that over in her mind as they drove on.
并列句	Through the snow that was falling and the thick fog she saw how powerful this man was, and the sledge driver too, how balanced in the sledge, how much at home in this land in a way the gyptians weren't.
陈述句	She was beginning to be frightened.
陈述句	He lifted her up.
并列句	But the way the man was talking I don't think my uncle's on the same side as the Gobblers.
并列句	In fact, they had to push 'em back in the sockets.... And so on.
条件状语从句	Six, if I need to.
陈述句	Good.
疑问句	Would you like that?
并列句	But she's a strange innocent creature, and I wouldn't have her harmed for the world.
条件状语从句	I would tell you if I did.
